tragically as many as a hundred thousand
of angola's elephants had been shot for
their ivory to help fund the war or for
their meat to feed their troops most of
the elephants that weren't killed fled
to the safety of Botswana but the memory
of the Angolan wilderness lives on in
the minds of the older elephant refugees
and there are signs that some of them
are trying to return home
the great irony is that 30 years of war
has actually preserved the Angolan
wilderness simply because it has been
too dangerous for people to move back
nan mine feels like this are all over
the place they're an estimated 10
million unexploded landmines in this
magnificent world Ernest our believe
elephants can smell landmines like rats
and dogs that are used to help demine
areas then elephants have a very
powerful sense of smell so my hunch is
and hen and early evidence suggests that
elephants can detect landmines
the matriarch that used to roam freely
in this part of Angola inherently will
remember it a lot of the pathways have
lay dormant and now that the war has
ended there is a perfect opportunity for
elephants to return back to southeast
Angola return home home is where the
heart is
we need to safeguard these new migration
corridors that elephants are using to
return home to Angola to help secure a
future for Elephants
Mike knows that given half a chance more
and more elephants will try to get back
there but it's crucial to protect their
migration routes now before rapid
development in Angola blocks their route
home the Chobe River runs along one of
Botswana's international boundaries for
the first time in decades elephants from
the Botswana side have begun to use the
river as a crossing point again heading
for Angola
if Mike can continue to work with
regional governments then he can help
protect these corridors and ensure the
elephants safe passage but to do that
Mike first needs to clearly identify
where their old cross-border migration
routes go
you